OSDOCS#3634: Adding eus-to-eus info for layered products and OLM operators (#59223)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/updating-eus-to-eus-layered-products.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * updating/preparing-eus-eus-upgrade.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="updating-eus-to-eus-olm-operators_{context}"]
= EUS-to-EUS update for layered products and Operators installed through Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM) 

> In addition to the EUS-to-EUS update steps mentioned for the web console and CLI, there are a couple of additional steps to consider when performing EUS-to-EUS updates for the clusters of layered products and those of Operators that have been installed through the Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM). 

Reviewer: This is kind of a long sentence (though not that bad). Might not be an improvement, but a fly-by idea to shorten/break-up:
```suggestion
In addition to the EUS-to-EUS update steps mentioned for the web console and CLI, there are additional steps to consider when performing EUS-to-EUS updates for clusters with the following:
* Layered products 
* Operators installed through Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM)
```

Author: nice :) thanks!

.What is a layered product?

> Layered products refer to products that are made of of multiple underlying products that are intended to be used together and cannot be broken into individual subscriptions. For examples of layered {product-title} products, see link:https://access.redhat.com/support/policy/updates/openshift/#layered[Layered Offering On OpenShift].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Layered products refer to products that are made of multiple underlying products that are intended to be used together and cannot be broken into individual subscriptions. For examples of layered {product-title} products, see link:https://access.redhat.com/support/policy/updates/openshift/#layered[Layered Offering On OpenShift].
```

Author: Nice catch :) ty

As you perform an EUS-to-EUS update for the clusters of layered products and those of Operators that have been installed through OLM, you must complete the following:

> . Ensure that all of your Operators previously installed through Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM) are updated to their latest version in their latest channel. Updating the Operators ensures that they have a valid update path when the default OperatorHub catalogs switch from the current minor version to the next during a cluster update. For information on how to update your Operators, see _Preparing for an Operator update_ in Additional resources.

Reviewer: Could drop the long-name on this one if you want, since the "OLM" short-name is already established in the module by this point:
```suggestion
. Ensure that all of your Operators previously installed through OLM are updated to their latest version in their latest channel. Updating the Operators ensures that they have a valid update path when the default OperatorHub catalogs switch from the current minor version to the next during a cluster update. For information on how to update your Operators, see _Preparing for an Operator update_ in Additional resources.
```

> . Ensure that all of your Operators previously installed through Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM) are updated to their latest version in their latest channel. Updating the Operators ensures that they have a valid update path when the default OperatorHub catalogs switch from the current minor version to the next during a cluster update. For information on how to update your Operators, see _Preparing for an Operator update_ in Additional resources.

Reviewer: In the other modules in this assembly, non-link references to other sections are in double-quotations, but they're in italics in this PR. Suggest syncing up on one or the other throughout (this has come up again recently in peer-review chats; hopefully we can get a clearer team-wide call on this soon). Also "Additional resources" here has neither.

> . Confirm the API and kernel compatibility used in the current and intended Operator versions. You can verify which versions your OLM operators are compatible with by using the link:https://access.redhat.com/labs/ocpouic/?operator=logging&&ocp_versions=4.10,4.11,4.12[Red Hat {product-title} Operator Update Information Checker].

Reviewer: Initcap "Operators".
```suggestion
. Confirm the API and kernel compatibility used in the current and intended Operator versions. You can verify which versions your OLM Operators are compatible with by using the link:https://access.redhat.com/labs/ocpouic/?operator=logging&&ocp_versions=4.10,4.11,4.12[Red Hat {product-title} Operator Update Information Checker].
```

> . Confirm the API and kernel compatibility used in the current and intended Operator versions. You can verify which versions your OLM operators are compatible with by using the link:https://access.redhat.com/labs/ocpouic/?operator=logging&&ocp_versions=4.10,4.11,4.12[Red Hat {product-title} Operator Update Information Checker].

Reviewer 3: What's the origin of this kernel compatibility concern? Maybe this should just be "Confirm the cluster version compatibility..." ?

Author: This came from the ticket as a concern, but if the user can just confirm the cluster version compatibility, we should we good :)

> As an example, here are the steps to perform an EUS-to-EUS update from <4.y> to <4.y+2> for OpenShift Data Foundation (ODF). This can be done through the CLI or web console. For information on how to update clusters through your desired interface, see _EUS-to-EUS update using the web console_ and _EUS-to-EUS update using the CLI_ in Additional resources.

Reviewer: Same re: section title markup and markup-less "Additional resources".

> .Procedure:

Reviewer: No `:` after `.Procedure`.

> .Procedure:

Reviewer: Technically, the procedure part of this should probably be broken out into its own procedure module, since there is quite a bit of conceptual info leading up to it. However, I can appreciate it getting a little awkward trying to uniquely title such a subsection, since these section titles are already getting pretty long... so maybe it's fine as-is.

Or maybe to get around it (and since the procedure itself is rather broad strokes vs the more detailed procedures earlier in this assembly), you could change the `.Procedure` to be more like `.Example workflow` or something?

Reviewer 3: I was going to suggest that this new content come before the existing two CLI and Web Console EUS-to-EUS processes but that runs into the problems @adellape is mentioning too, there's steps to do in this content. If we broke this up into conceptual bits, confirm layer/olm operator compatibility and devise an upgrade plan for those components, and then ensured the web console and cli update procedures prompt them to address OLM/Layered product updates, if needed, in the appropriate spots that would work well.

Also, I'm noticing that the web console eus-to-eus bits mention updating OLM operators if needed as step 7 but the cli content does not. We should add that to the cli portion after step 6, becoming step 7.

Author: I like the `.Example workflow` recommendation :) tysm

. Pause the worker machine pools

> . Upgrade OpenShift <4.y> → OpenShift <4.y+1>

Reviewer: I believe we should be using the two-character `->` for arrows like this (which does convert to the nice → style in the built version). [Similar example](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#quick-markup-reference) in repo guidelines.

. Upgrade ODF <4.y> → ODF <4.y+1>
. Upgrade OpenShift <4.y+1> → OpenShift <4.y+2>
. Upgrade to ODF <4.y+2>

> . Unpause the worker machine pools

Reviewer: These steps all seem like complete sentences, so could gain `.` punctuation.

> Upgrade to ODF <4.y+2> can happen before or after worker machine pools have been unpaused.

Reviewer: Feels like something is missing at the beginning of this sentence. Is it "An upgrade to", "The upgrade to", "Upgrades to", something else?

Does this also seem like maybe worthy of a `[NOTE]` admonition?

Author: Good call :) ty

> In the ODF example above, OpenShift Container Storage (OCS) <4.y> is compatible with OpenShift <4.y> and OpenShift <4.y+1>, and ODF <4.y+1> is compatible with OpenShift <4.y+1> and OpenShift <4.y+2>.

Reviewer: IBM SG says avoid "above" and suggests "previous" or "preceding".
```suggestion
In the previous ODF example, OpenShift Container Storage (OCS) <4.y> is compatible with OpenShift <4.y> and OpenShift <4.y+1>, and ODF <4.y+1> is compatible with OpenShift <4.y+1> and OpenShift <4.y+2>.
```

> In the ODF example above, OpenShift Container Storage (OCS) <4.y> is compatible with OpenShift <4.y> and OpenShift <4.y+1>, and ODF <4.y+1> is compatible with OpenShift <4.y+1> and OpenShift <4.y+2>.

Reviewer: In general (and it's very likely I am just not familiar with some aspect of the subject matter at play here), I wasn't really sure what this last bit was trying to illustrate, as far as bringing up OCS.

Author: checked w/ engineering, and it looks like it's just something that was top of mind that a customer had bumped up against. No need to call OCS out specifically, so will remove :)
